Awesome Country Apple Fritter Bread Recipe


Fluffy, buttery, white cake loaf loaded with chunks of apples and layers of brown sugar and cinnamon swirled inside and on top. Simply Irresistible!

Servings: 8

Servings: 8

Ingredients

Brown Sugar/Cinnamon Mixture:
1/3 cup light brown sugar
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Bread Loaf
2/3 cup white sugar
1/2 cup butter softened
2 eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 3/4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 cup milk or almond milk
2 apples any kind, peeled and chopped , mixed with 2 tablespoons granulated sugar and 1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 cup of powdered sugar

1-3 tablespoons of milk or cream- depending on thickness of glaze wanted

Instructions

Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Use a 9x5-inch loaf pan and spray with non-stick spray or line with foil and spray with non-stick spray to get out easily for slicing.

Mix brown sugar and cinnamon together in a bowl. Set aside.

In another medium-sized bowl, beat white sugar and butter together using an electric mixer until smooth and creamy.

Beat in eggs, 1 at a time, until blended in; add in vanilla extract.

Combine & whisk flour and baking powder together in another bowl and add into creamed butter mixture and stir until blended.

Mix milk into batter until smooth.

Pour half the batter into the prepared loaf pan; add half the chopped apple mixture.

Sprinkle 1/2 of the brown sugar/cinnamon mixture you set aside earlier, on top of apple layer.

Pour the remaining batter over apple layer and top with remaining chopped apples, then the remaining brown sugar/cinnamon mixture.

Lightly pat apples into batter; swirl brown sugar mixture through apples using knife or spoon.

Bake in the preheated oven until a toothpick inserted in the center of the loaf comes out clean, approximately 60 minutes.

To make glaze, mix powdered sugar and milk or cream together until well mixed.

Let cool for about 15 minutes before drizzling with glaze.

Recipe Notes

Adapted from Lui in Cucina

