Best Strawberry Poke Cake


Print5 from 11 votes Servings: 16 servings

Prep Time:30 mins Cook Time:30 mins Total Time:1 hr

Strawberry Poke Cake is made with white cake, soaked with a mixture of white chocolate strawberry sauce, topped with strawberry pie filling and creamy whipped cream.

Ingredients
1 box white cake mix (plus ingredients to prepare the mix)

Strawberry White Chocolate Mixture:
14 oz sweetened condensed milk
3/4 cups white chocolate chips
1 package 3 oz JELL-O strawberry flavor gelatin
1/4 cup warm water

Other ingredients:
2 cans 21 oz each strawberry pie filling
2 cups heavy whipping cream full fat and cold
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
10-15 fresh strawberries sliced

Instructions

Prepare White Cake:

Preheat oven to 350F.

Grease and sprinkle with flour a 9-x-13 inch cake pan.

Prepare white cake mix according to box instructions. Pour batter into the prepared pan and bake for about 25-30 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. Let cool for 10 minutes and using the bottom of a wooden spoon, poke holes all over the cake.

Strawberry White Chocolate Mixture:

In a medium, microwave safe bowl, combine white chocolate chips and sweetened condensed milk. Heat in the microwave until hot for about 1 minute, stir and heat 30 seconds or more if needed. Stir until fully combined, smooth and shiny.

Stir in the strawberry gelatin mix into the warm water. Make sure it dissolves, otherwise it will be gritty. Stir the strawberry mixture into the condensed milk mixture until fully combined and smooth.

Pour the strawberry chocolate mixture all over the cake and using a spatula spread it evenly into the holes.

Let the cake cool completely and refrigerate for about one hour.

Other layers:

Top the cake with the strawberry pie filling if using.

In a large bowl, beat heavy cream, sugar, and vanilla extract until stiff peaks form.

Using a spoon, scoop the whipped cream all over the cake and spread it with a spatula.

Garnish:

Garnish the cake with sliced strawberries.

Refrigerate the cake for at least 8 hours or better overnight before serving.

