Homemade Lemon Cupcakes

1/2 cup (115g) unsalted butter, softened to room temperature
1 cup (200g)granulated sugar
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 and 1/2 cups (190g) all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (120ml) milk (cow, almond, soy)
zest + fresh juice of two medium lemons*
1 cup (230g) unsalted butter, softened to room temperature
3-4 cups (360-480g) powdered (confectioners') sugar
1/4 cup (60ml) heavy cream*
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt, to taste
additional lemon zest for decoration, if desired

Yield 12 cupcakes

Preheat the oven to 350F. Line 12-count muffin pan with paper liners. Set aside.

Using a handheld or stand mixer, beat the butter and sugar together on medium speed in a large bowl until creamed. About 2-3 minutes. Add eggs and vanilla. Beat on medium speed until everything is combined, about 2 full minutes. Set aside.

In a medium sized bowl, toss together the flour, baking powder, and salt. Slowly add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients in 3 additions, stirring by hand after each addition. Batter will be thick. Add the milk, lemon zest, and lemon juice. Mix until just combined, do not overmix.

Pour batter evenly into 12 cupcake liners. Bake for about 20 minutes. Check at 18 minutes, then again at 20. A toothpick inserted in the middle will come out clean when done. Remove from the oven and allow to cool completely before frosting.

To make the frosting, beat softened butter on medium speed with an electric or stand mixer. Beat for about 3-4 minutes until smooth and creamy. Add powdered sugar, cream, vanilla extract, and salt with the mixer running. Increase to high speed and beat for 3 minutes. Add more powdered sugar if frosting is too thin or more cream if mixture is too thick. Add more salt if frosting is too sweet. Frost cooled cupcakes. If topping with lemon zest, do so right before serving. There may be leftover frosting depending how much you use on each cupcake.

Makes 12 cupcakes. Store cupcakes in an airtight container at room temperature for 1 day and then in the refrigerator for up to 4 days.

