Homemade Icing

*Flavor Options* Almond: Substitute 1/2 teaspoon almond extract for the vanilla. Garnish frosted cake or cupcakes with toasted sliced almonds. Peppermint: Substitute 1/2 teaspoon peppermint extract for the vanilla; if desired, tint with red food coloring. Top garnished cake or cupcakes with peppermint candies. Dark Chocolate: Substitute 1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder for 1/2 cup of the powdered sugar. Coffee: Add 1 tablespoon instant espresso powder or coffee crystals, or substitute brewed coffee for the milk. Milk Chocolate: Melt 1 cup milk chocolate pieces; cool. Beat chocolate into the butter before adding the powdered sugar. Strawberry: Beat 1/3 cup strawberry jam into the butter before adding the powdered sugar. Spice: Add 1 to 2 teaspoons apple pie spice or pumpkin pie spice with the powdered sugar. Peanut Butter: Beat 1/2 cup peanut butter into the butter before adding the powdered sugar. Garnish frosted cake or cupcakes with chopped peanuts. Citrus: Substitute lemon or orange juice for the milk; stir 1/2 teaspoon grated lemon or orange peel into the finished frosting. Garnish frosted cake or cupcakes with thin strips of lemon or orange peel.

3/4 cup butter
2 pounds sifted powdered sugar (about 8 cups)
1/3 cup milk
2 teaspoons vanilla
Milk
Food coloring (optional)

For a two-layer 8- or 9-inch round cake,* you'll need:

Ingredients listed

*Halve the recipe to frost the top of a 13x9x2-inch cake.

Step 2: Prep your ingredients

Soften the butter by bringing it to room temperature. Soft butter will ensure that it easily blends with the other ingredients, giving you a smooth frosting. Meanwhile, sift the powdered sugar.

Note: Never used melted butter when a recipe calls for softened butter. The frosting will not mix properly and the texture will thin out and act as more of a glaze than a thick, luscious frosting.

Step 3: Cream together ingredients

In a large mixing bowl beat the softened butter with an electric mixer on medium speed until smooth. Gradually add 2 cups of the powdered sugar, beating well. Slowly beat in 1/3 cup milk and the vanilla. Gradually beat in the remaining powdered sugar.

Step 4: Beat frosting to spreadable consistency

You want a frosting that will spread effortlessly. If the frosting is too thick, beat in additional milk, 1 teaspoon at a time, until you reach a thick but spreadable consistency.

Make sure the milk is fully incorporated before adding the next teaspoon: Just a teaspoon or two is sometimes all you need to go from too stiff to the perfect texture. If your frosting gets a bit too soft, put it in the refrigerator for a few minutes or stir in 1/4 to 1/2 cup more powdered sugar to firm it up.

