Honey Barbecue Meatloaf


Toss one slice of soft white bread in your food processor and grind it into crumbs. The soft moisture from the bread will make for a really tender, juicy meatloaf. You can alternately use regular breadcrumbs, or panko, if you’d like.

Next, in a large bowl, use your hands to mix together 1 lb lean ground beef, the fresh bread crumbs, 1/4 cup of your favorite smoky barbecue sauce, 2 tablespoons worcestershire sauce, 1 tablespoon spicy brown mustard (or dijon), 1 tablespoon honey, 1 teaspoon salt, and 1 teaspoon ground black pepper.

Shape the mixture into a long, thick log and place in an oiled baking dish. Be careful not to pack the meat too tightly or you’ll end up with a very dense, tough loaf.

In a small bowl, whisk together 1/4 cup barbecue sauce, 1 tablespoon honey, and 2 teaspoons worcestershire sauce. Spread half of it evenly all over the meatloaf. Reserve the other half for serving.

Bake for 45 minutes at 350 degrees F.

Remove the meat from the oven and let it stand for 5 minutes.

Slice and drizzle with the reserved barbecue sauce. Serve with mashed cauliflower and salad.

serves 4

serves 4
1 lb 90% lean ground beef
1 slice white bread, ground to crumbs in food processor -or- 2/3 cup panko bread crumbs
1 tablespoon plus 2 teaspoons worcestershire sauce
1 tablespoon spicy brown mustard
1/2 cup smoky barbecue sauce, divided
2 tablespoons honey, divided
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon black pepper

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Toss one slice of soft white bread in your food processor and grind it into crumbs.

In a large bowl, use your hands to mix together the ground beef, fresh bread crumbs, 1 tablespoon of the worcestershire sauce, the spicy brown mustard, 1/4 cup of the barbecue sauce, 1 tablespoon honey, salt, and black pepper.

Shape the mixture into a long, thick log and place in an oiled baking dish. Be careful not to pack the meat too tightly or you’ll end up with a very dense, tough loaf.

In a small bowl, whisk together the remaining 1/4 cup barbecue sauce, 1 tablespoon honey, and 2 teaspoons worcestershire sauce. Spread half of this mixture evenly all over the meatloaf. Reserve the other half for serving.

Bake for 45 minutes. Slice and drizzle with reserved honey barbecue sauce.

