Instant Pot Country Style Ribs


This Recipe Marinate Time: 30 minutes Total: 1 hour

Servings: 4 - 6

Ingredients
3.5 - 4 pounds (1554g) country style ribs (1.5” in thickness)
½ cup (125ml) apple cider vinegar
¾ cup (188ml) cold water
1 teaspoon (2.8g) garlic powder
1 teaspoon (2.4g) onion powder
¼ teaspoon (2g) coarse kosher salt
2 tablespoons (30ml) regular soy sauce or ½ teaspoon (4g) coarse kosher salt
2 tablespoons (25g) brown sugar or honey (optional)
Ground black pepper
½ cup - 1 cup BBQ sauce (we used Sweet Baby Ray's Barbecue Sauce)

Tools

Instant Pot Pressure Cooker

Silicone Basting Brush

Kitchen Tongs

Instructions
Make Ribs Marinade: Add 1 tsp (2.8g) garlic powder, 1 tsp (2.4g) onion powder, and 2 tbsp (30ml) regular soy sauce in Instant Pot. Add in ½ cup (125ml) apple cider vinegar and ¾ cup (188ml) cold water, then mix thoroughly.

Marinate Ribs: Place 3.5 - 4 lb country style ribs into the apple cider vinegar marinade. Add ¼ tsp (2g) coarse kosher salt, ground black pepper, and 2 tbsp (25g) brown sugar or honey on top of the country style ribs. Marinate ribs for 30 minutes - 1 hour in the fridge. *Pro Tip: The apple cider vinegar helps tenderize the ribs. So, don’t marinate it for too long, or the ribs can come out a bit mushy.

Pressure Cook Country Style Ribs: Close lid, then turn Venting Knob to Sealing position.

Pressure Cook at High Pressure for 15 minutes + 10 minutes Natural Release.

After natural releasing for 10 minutes, carefully turn the Venting Knob to Venting Position to release the remaining pressure. Open the lid carefully.

Apply BBQ Sauce & Broil Ribs: Set the country style ribs on an oven tray, then generously apply ½ cup - 1 cup BBQ sauce all over the ribs. *Note: You can use an oven, Air Fryer Lid, or Instant Pot Duo Crisp's "Air Fry" function for this broiling step.Option 1 - Oven/Toaster Oven: Place the ribs on an oven tray under the "Broil" function (or the highest temperature setting) for a few minutes until the BBQ sauce is caramelized.Option 2 - Air Fryer Lid: Remove the apple vinegar liquid, then add 1 cup of cold water in the inner pot. Place the airfryer basket with the tray on the middle rack in Instant Pot. Layer the ribs on the airfryer tray, then place the air fryer lid on Instant Pot. Press "Air Fry" button, set temperature to 400°F and cooking time to 12 minutes. *Pro Tip: It will take roughly 8 - 11 minutes + preheat time. You can open the lid to check the progress.

