Peach Cobbler Cheesecake


Prep Time: 60 minutes

Cook Time: 90 minutes

Total Time: 2 hours 30 minutes

Yield: 12 1x

Ingredients

Peach Filling and Topping:
8 large peaches pitted, peeled and sliced 1/3-½ inch thick
½ cup Brown sugar
½ cup sugar
1 Tablespoon lemon juice
2 Tablespoons corn starch
1 teaspoon cinnamon
¼ teaspoon nutmeg
3 cups graham cracker crumbs
¾ cup unsalted butter-melted

Cheesecake Layer:
3 (8 oz.) packages cream cheese-softened
¾ cup sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/3 cup sour cream
4 large eggs-slightly beaten
2 Tablespoons corn starch

Cobbler Topping:
1 cup all-purpose flour
¼ cup brown sugar
¼ cup sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
½ teaspoon salt
1/3 cup unsalted butter-cold and cut into small pieces
¼ cup boiling water

Instructions

Peach Filling and Topping:

In a large pot place sliced peaches and lemon juice. Add mixture of sugar, brown sugar, corn starch, cinnamon and nutmeg. Stir with a wooden spoon and cook over medium high heat 8-10 minutes or until the peaches become soft. Set aside to cool.

Line the bottom of 9 X 3 inches springform pan with parchment paper and spray lightly with non-stick spray. Then, wrap the springform pan with 2 large sheets of heavy- duty aluminum foil to make sure no water leaks in the pan during the baking in water bath. Set aside.

Preheat the oven to 425 F.

To make the crust, using a fork whisk together graham cracker crumbs and melted butter until all evenly moistened. Then press the mixture in the bottom of springform pan and place in the fridge or freezer while making the filling.

Cheesecake Filling:

Beat together softened cream cheese with sugar and vanilla, until smooth and creamy. Next, mix in sour cream and corn starch. Then add slightly beaten eggs and mix on low just to combine, do not overmix the batter.

Pour half of the mixture (about 2 ½ cups) over the crust and smooth the top. Place springform pan in large roasting pan, then pour hot water into the roasting pan, until it reaches halfway up the springform pan and bake 13-15 minutes, until the top is set.

Turn down the oven temperature to 350 F.

Remove the pan from the oven and arrange thin layer of peaches over cheesecake layer. Save leftovers of the peaches and sauce for serving.

Spoon remaining cheesecake layer over the peaches, smooth the top and place back in the oven. Bake about 40-45 minutes at 350 F, until the cheesecake is just slightly jiggly in the center.

Cobbler Topping:

While the cheesecake is baking, prepare cobbler topping. Stir together flour, brown sugar, sugar and baking powder. Cut in cold butter with a fork. Add boiling water and stir, then set aside.

When the cheesecake is almost baked (the top is set ) remove it from the oven. Arrange layer of peaches on top, dollop the cobbler in lumps on top of the peaches and place back in the oven for 20-25 minutes until the cobbler topping gets nice golden-brown color.

Turn off the oven and leave the cheesecake in the oven with the door crack open for one hour. Then, remove it from water bath and place to a cooling rack to cool to room temperature. Chill in the refrigerator 4-6 hours or overnight.

When the cheesecake is cooled in the fridge, run a thin knife around the cake and release the ring from springform pan, then transfer the cake on a serving plate.

When ready to serve top the cake with remaining peaches and sauce. You can reheat the sauce before drizzling over the cake.

Store in the fridge.

