Salted Caramel Kentucky Butter Cake

3 cups all-purpose flour
2 cups white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon baking powder
½ teaspoon baking soda
½ teaspoon cream of tartar
1 cup caramel coffee creamer (I used International Delight Simply Pure) (can substitute Buttermilk but leave out the cream of tartar)
1 cup unsalted butter, room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
4 large eggs, room temperature
¾ cup white sugar
cup butter
3 tablespoons caramel coffee creamer ((I used International Delight Simply Pure)
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup sugar
¼ cup water
¾ cup heavy cream
3½ tablespoons unsalted butter
1 teaspoon sea salt or kosher salt

Prep Time: 30 mins

Cook Time: 55 mins

Total Time: 1 hour 25 mins

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Grease and flour a 10 inch Bundt cake pan.

In a large bowl, whisk together the flour, 2 cups sugar, salt, cream of tartar, baking powder and baking soda.

In the bowl of a stand mixer or with a hand mixer, blend in (meaning, into the DRY mixture) the coffee creamer, 1 cup of butter, 2 teaspoons of vanilla and 4 eggs. Beat for 3 minutes at medium speed.

Pour batter into prepared Bundt pan.

Bake in preheated oven for 50-55 minutes, or until a wooden toothpick inserted into center of cake comes out clean.

Prick holes in the cake while it is still warm (I use the handle of a wooden spoon). Slowly pour the butter sauce over cake making sure it gets in all of the holes. Let cake cool completely before removing from pan. Running a knife along the edges first helps the cake come out cleanly.

In a saucepan combine the remaining ¾ cups sugar, cup butter, 2 teaspoons vanilla, and the coffee creamer. Cook over medium heat, until fully melted and combined, but do not the mixture boil.

In a heavy-bottomed saucepan, combine the sugar and water over medium-low heat until the sugar dissolves.

Increase the heat to medium-high and bring to a boil, without stirring. If necessary, use a wet pastry brush to wash down any crystals on the side of the pan. Boil until the syrup is a deep amber color, about 6-8 minutes.

Remove the sugar from the heat and carefully whisk in the heavy cream. The mixture will bubble. Stir in the unsalted butter, and salt. Transfer the caramel to a dish and cool. Drizzle/pour over the cake. You may have some leftover - use it over ice cream!

