Strawberry Cupcakes

1 (10 ounce) bag frozen strawberries
For the Cupcakes:
½ cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1½ cups sugar
4 egg whites, room temperature
2 tsp vanilla extract
2 cups all purpose flour
1 tsp baking powder
½ tsp baking soda
¼ tsp salt
1 cup whole milk, room temperature
¼ cup strawberry reduction (from frozen strawberries)
1 Tb white vinegar
For the Frosting:
10 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
3 to 4 cups confectioners’ sugar, sifted
12 ounces cream cheese, cut into 12 pieces and softened
remaining strawberry solids (from frozen strawberries)
pinch salt

Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 350°F and line two regular 12 cup muffin tins with paper cups.

Transfer strawberries to bowl, cover, and microwave until strawberries are soft and have released their juice, about 5 minutes.

Place in fine-mesh strainer set over small saucepan. Firmly press fruit dry (juice should measure at least ¾ cup); reserve strawberry solids in refrigerator.

Bring juice to boil over medium-high heat and cook, stirring occasionally, until syrupy and reduced to ¼ cup, 6 to 8 minutes. Whisk milk and vinegar into juice until combined; set aside.

Cream together butter and sugar until light and fluffy, about 3-4 minutes. Add egg whites, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Mix in vanilla.

In a medium bowl, sift together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Whisk to evenly combine. Add to the creamed mixture alternately with the milk mixture (beginning and ending with the flour), beating well after each addition.

Fill cups full and bake 20-22 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. Let cool in pan for 10 minutes then remove to a wire rack to cool completely.

For the Frosting: Using stand mixer fitted with paddle, mix butter and 3 cups confectioners’ sugar on low speed until combined, about 30 seconds.

Increase speed to medium-high and beat until pale and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add cream cheese, one piece at a time, and beat until incorporated, about 1 minute.

Add reserved strawberry solids and salt and mix until combined, about 30 seconds. Add additional 1 cup confectioners’ sugar to thicken frosting as desired. Refrigerate until ready to use, up to 2 days.

